OIDC with JWT auth (#1220)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/configure-oidc-with-jwt-auth.md

works_on:
  - on-prem
  - konnect

min_version:
  gateway: '3.4'

tools:
  - deck

prereqs:
  entities:
    services:
      - example-service
    routes:
      - example-route
  inline:
    - title: Set up Keycloak
      include_content: prereqs/auth/oidc/keycloak-password
      icon_url: /assets/icons/keycloak.svg

tags:
  - authentication
  - openid-connect

description: Set up OpenID Connect with JSON Web Token (JWT) auth, which uses a bearer token for authentication with the IdP.

tldr:
  q: How do I retrieve a JWT token and use it to authenticate with my IdP?
  a: Using the OpenID Connect plugin, set up the [JWT auth workflow](/plugins/openid-connect/#jwt-access-token-authentication-flow) to connect to an identity provider (IdP) and use the validated token to access the upstream service.

cleanup:
  inline:
    - title: Clean up Konnect environment
      include_content: cleanup/platform/konnect
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
    - title: Destroy the {{site.base_gateway}} container
      include_content: cleanup/products/gateway
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg

search_aliases:
  - oidc
---

## 1. Enable the OpenID Connect plugin with JWT authentication

> Stateless JWT Access Token authentication is named `bearer` in the OpenID Connect plugin.
> 
> Using the Keycloak and {{site.base_gateway}} configuration from the [prerequisites](#prerequisites), 
> set up an instance of the OpenID Connect plugin with bearer authentication. 
> We're also enabling the password grant so that you can test retrieving the bearer auth token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the Keycloak and {{site.base_gateway}} configuration from the [prerequisites](#prerequisites), 
set up an instance of the OpenID Connect plugin with bearer authentication. The stateless JWT Access Token authentication is named `bearer` in the OpenID Connect plugin.

We're also enabling the password grant so that you can test retrieving the bearer auth token. 
```

Enable the OpenID Connect plugin on the `example-service` Service:

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  plugins:
    - name: openid-connect
      service: example-service
      config:
        issuer: ${issuer}
        client_id:
        - ${client-id}
        client_secret:
        - ${client-secret}
        client_auth:
        - client_secret_post
        auth_methods:
        - bearer
        - password
        bearer_token_param_type:
        - query
variables:
  issuer:
    value: $ISSUER
  client-id:
    value: $CLIENT_ID
  client-secret:
    value: $CLIENT_SECRET
{% endentity_examples %}

In this example:
* `issuer`, `client ID`, `client secret`, and `client auth`: Settings that connect the plugin to your IdP (in this case, the sample Keycloak app).
* `auth_methods`: Specifies that the plugin should use bearer authentication and the password grant.
* `bearer_token_param_type`: Restricts token lookup to the query string only.

{% include_cached plugins/oidc/client-auth.md %}

## 2. Retrieve the bearer token

> Check that you can recover the token by requesting the Service with the basic authentication credentials created in the [prerequisites](#prerequisites):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check that you can recover the token by sending a request to the Service with the basic authentication credentials created in the [prerequisites](#prerequisites):
```
